Okay.
Marsha?
Could we go through the rare book thing once more?
Like that story?
That story, yeah.
Well... And even use this very same... I have to.
Suddenly, at a dinner at the Federal Reserve Board, I was asked by Chairman Paul Volcker, what makes the book rare?
And nine heads turned toward me, and I was deeply embarrassed.
And I said, well, Mr. Chairman, I said,
It's really just a matter of supply and demand, which it is.
And I was about to tell you, I was explaining to a man this morning, first of all, about the issue points and why one book was twice the price of the other.
And then in the last 10 years only, thanks to the assiduousness of various bibliographers, there were issue points on dust wrappers.
So now it's no longer The Great Gatsby with a dust wrapper.
It's The Great Gatsby in, I don't know how many,
Issues have been found, like five, and so that the first issue of the Tusk Trapper... But have they been able to determine which was the first... I think so, at least to some... And that's kind of a guess, isn't it?
I mean... It's all very good.
You did get Knopf and some of the other publishers today, which put dates on the best exactly.
Yes, I don't even... I find it so absurd myself that I haven't even... And I don't have a great guess either.
The prices, I guess, and the credits, and... I don't know.
But it's extremely precious now, and much more...
than it ever was in the turn of the century.
We were talking also about a rare book is not necessarily a scarce book.
A scarce book is not necessarily a rare book.
I'll probably quote you on this Times piece, if that's your question, because you are answering, in essence, her question, what makes a book rare.
Yeah.
And it's quite obvious.
If more people want it, then the right copy is available.
Well, it's very hard to start out cold with somebody who has no... To whom it's a mystery.
But I think we have to say taste and fashion.
Yes, and that's why I tell people not to invest in books.
It's investment.
Yeah, one of the things I noted at the Bradley Martin sale on Americana, and this is something I think I would actually pursue in the piece, is that he was a high spot collector, so he really didn't need to collect any debt in American fiction.
But he did have, you know, they were all debt authors,
You actually, I think, could gauge literary reputation by the prices that were being paid by the same people in the same room for the best of the best.
I mean, and everything was in quite nice condition.
Do you think that, would you agree with that, that literary reputation is reflected by prices of books?
Yes, but I'll tell you something like Fitzgerald and Hemingway, I think they're sustained so much by the notoriety of their private lives.
You can't really say that because they get such enormous prices that they are the most respected as writers, don't you think?
I was in the room with him.
You can't even say that he has any literary status.
No, that's even a better example.
I don't go to these big auctions, but I remember once a, I think it was a very elaborately drunkenly inscribed Fitzgerald book went for more than the manuscript of a T.S.
Eliot poem.
I can figure that.
And it was just because it was, the gossip
$750 for Ben Johnson's works, for instance.
Yeah.
You know, I just quoted from Joseph the Provider, you know, I thought I'd have a complete Akramila collection, except for Situation Normal, you know, and he just quoted a very nice copy of that book for $550.
I guess, you know, I don't know if they're not going to buy it yet.
Well, they're the top of the line.
I'm sorry?
They have the best books at very high prices, so that's about the outside.
But my point is, we're talking about two playwrights, and the prices for each playwright are about the same.
And this one is 300 years old, and the other one is about 30 years old, about 40 years old.
Of course, a lot of modern collectors now, especially since they are in California and the West, are more modern-oriented when they're collecting.
So they don't collect early books.
They don't collect the classics the way The Gentleman and the Gourley Flux used to.
No.
There is one fellow I'm interviewing in California.
Do you know Bill Self?
Have you ever heard of him?
William Self, I see.
No.
He's a producer.
I saw him at one of the Martin sales when he bought Tamerlane.
Oh, he did, yeah.
He spoke to his wife.
and an older guy.
I went up and introduced him, and I said, yeah, I'd love to talk to you.
I called him.
He has 20, he collects classics.
He has 23 presentations, Dick Dickens presentations, and his vaults.
We have to get together and talk.
In his vault?
He has a vault in his house.
We're talking an L.A.
type.
I mean, these guys have vaults, I guess.
You quite agree that a lot of the action has moved out to the West Coast?
Yes.
Even though there still is money here in the East Coast, why do you think, and we said, of course, there necessarily is money, then, is it?
Maybe all the adventurous people are still going west.
But they are different collectors out there.
I mean, we do have a Barc Curie, for instance, you know, he is.
Well, are there more collecting moderns out there?
I guess.
But then we had Carter Burden, who sustained a trade.
Yeah.
I'll be interviewing him, by the way, in September.
Well, that'll be interesting, because he's... I guess he's not.
Have you sold some off yet?
Yes.
He's sold his Arden collection.
It's odd to sell off.
I just think it's unusual.
Well, I want to... Old-time collectors never would have done a favorite diary of their collections around us.
Maybe he just...
I don't know.
I wonder if it's a quote.
I've never heard of it.
No.
I've just never heard of it.
But there's no such thing.
He's scared by that.
Yeah, well... He was scared by that.
But that man had such a straight face, I think.
I shouldn't have sent him to Bill, but that's a good way to get rid of people.
Before I forget, this man, you came in this morning, this old man, and he told me that he had worked for 60 years as a crazier, and he'd done a little slideshow about books and book collectors, 145 pictures of book collectors.
And he apparently has 1,500, he has interviewed and photographed 1,500 collectors.
Is this guy's name?
And they're not just book collectors, but they're collectors.
And he says his mission in life, he's quite a smart old man, to try to persuade people to become collectors because collectors were happy people.
And he was very articulate, and I really think that you could... Lawrence, it sounds like he could fit into my category with the... I told you about the literary detective.
Yes.
He's a really interesting guy.
Well, this man, I told him that you were coming in, so he would know.
So he'd be interested to talk to you?
Yes, I would love to talk.
And really, if anyone's taken 1,200 pictures and talked to 1,200 people in Europe and all around the world.
How did he find all these collections?
Well, you see, he was an art appraiser, an artifact appraiser.
So he's been in the same apartment in Washington for 62 years.
But I guess he traveled the world.
I didn't have an extensive conversation with him.
How old would you say he is?
Oh, late 70s.
I've had some wonderful interviews with people who are artichans.
Yes.
Well, he was quite bright.
He wanted me to come see him.
Appraiser Art Antiques with his photograph on the back of the car.
A lively thought.
But I think you might get some interesting things from him.
Thank you.
Let's talk a little bit about...
I've heard you describe some of the festivals, quite many people have come in, that you deal in literature as obviously older books.
You collect other types of things, is that right?
We actually have other books.
Because I didn't believe Roger had written about it.
Is there a focus?
My collection?
Neither the store nor my collection have been focused.
We bought the Phoenix Bookstore, for instance, the stock.
Oh, you did?
Yes, and that's upstairs.
We have three apartments full of books upstairs.
When did you do that?
Oh, last year.
It was so first in one dealer down here, and then we bought it.
So we have actually an apartment full of modern poetry and modern literature.
We bought another bookstore in Long Island.
So we have a lot of moderns.
You bought the stock in the United States?
Yeah.
You operate how many bookstores?
Three.
Four.
One here.
One in Dallas, one in Houston, and one in Archer City, Tennessee.
We really must sell this disaster.
Oh, correct.
Excuse me.
What's that on?
No, I don't know.
But we've got this.
Did you find a bill?
What part did you want to take that study of women book collectors or the lack thereof?
I have been observing for 20 years in the store.
Men and women come into the store.
All ages, all colors, all sizes.
And the men have an immediate response to the bookshelves.
And I'm talking about 14-year-old black boys, young boys, middle-aged people, old people.
The women and the girls almost invariably look at the antiques, sit down, and then they
They can't stay in here very long.
They usually go to antique stores across the state.
Very intelligent looking people.
I haven't found any pattern in it.
And so it's just, it's irritating.
It's embarrassing me, basically, for all these years.
I couldn't understand it.
It's an instinctive, proprietary feeling that men seem to have.
It's comfortable in this manner.
I had considered it a myth that women are book collectors.
But here you are, a woman bookseller, and all of a sudden you're agreeing with a lot of things.
Oh, I was upset at finding that to be true.
And I can't tell you how many times I've done it.
Only 20 times in 20 years.
A wonderful woman arrives and lives in California.
Nineteenth-century, eighteenth-century literature by women, and we have a lot of that sweet-efforts and things upstairs.
She went upstairs.
She had a list.
She spent $2,000.
She bought them, sent them to her.
That never happened.
Older woman, younger woman?
Middle-aged woman.
At the Bradley Martin sale, a lot of little interesting stories developed, you know, made a really pretty young woman, and I would say young one.
He's a dealer collector.
Very, very smart young man.
And active and knowledgeable in the trade and much more intellectual authority.
That's my one ever since college.
I know.
I have to give another one next year.
I have to think of another.
I mean, I'm going to shamelessly follow some of your needs here.
Well, I tell you, I got some of those leaves from John Gatch.
You know who he is?
G-A-C-H.
He is an ABA dealer in psychology.
He is a self-made man.
He is a self-educated man.
He is totally crazy.
Where is his guy at?
Well, Maryland.
John Gatch.
In fact, I don't even think I sent him the copy.
He's the one that told me that women were collected...
They're not.
Didn't collect it because they were collected.
Here.
Do you subscribe to that, by the way?
Oh, I think historically, yes, it makes a little sense, yeah.
They certainly are still being used.
Women have been regarded as... What?
Twenty for that.
And this one?
Oh, good.
Okay.
But he talked to me on the phone for an hour.
About the psychology of collective discipline.
Have you studied on the psychology?
No.
Do you know what he called for?
Sure.
Oh, Lisa.
Lisa.
Have you studied that you know on the psychology of collective discipline?
No, you see, Freud, he was such a strange guy.
That's why I got so disgusted with that one who had the eye popping.
um that was one of the few things that i found and then that's that very very funny study comparing the boys and girls and you said cliche after cliche he would like nothing more than to i'm going to retire
Aren't you going to sit on your mountaintop and sell books?
I don't know.
Bill's been in business despite his age.
He's been in business for, what, 40 or 50 years now?
30.
He was a child when he opened.
20, 19?
20.
Tell me a bit about, you've loved books all your life.
You inherit a lot of books.
How do you feel that that's how you break this pattern that you write about in this essay?
Well, I was just kind of, you know, retiring, escape into books type, but a lot of people are, and a lot of women are, and they don't necessarily collect, but my grandfather is out, never mind.
They do not have light nor air.
Could you name your grandfather, please?
I don't think you named him in this essay.
Yes, he's very famous, and a third of his collection is in Texas, though.
I made a chapter in Texas, I think I mentioned this one.
Yes, there's a biography of him.
By the way, my aunt and his son, Junior, actually also collected.
I mentioned him.
Did you mention what he collected?
Grandfather had a history of science collection, which was just fabulous, and he bought them all in the 20s and 30s, and he would happen to have struck oil during his depression, so he was able to— Merrily struck oil?
Yes, he's an oil man.
He's called the father of petroleum geology.
Really?
So he was rich when everyone else was poor, which is such a nice way.
And then the history of science books were very cheap anyway.
He had Copernicus.
And so that collection is at the University of Oklahoma.
And that's a very fun history of science collection.
And that's been added to.
And his literature is at the University of Texas.
It's not just Southwestern history.
It really is all of Western Americana, Central American exploration, early settling in.
Where did he live?
Dallas.
Your grandfather was in Dallas.
Dallas, yeah.
Are you from Texas as well?
Well, I was born there, but I grew up here in the age of one, so I'm not really.
And his son collected, has a large train collection.
He added to the other collection.
But my aunt just called me yesterday.
Also, pornography, which I didn't know about.
But he only collected erotica that was
heterosexual erotica between white Anglo-Saxons.
But he also collected Russian... my uncle, Everett Lee de Gallia, Jr., and my aunt just called me yesterday, and she's decided that the Russian books, which include letters from the tsar to his mistress, untranslated, she's decided to sell them.
because she's mad at SMU anyway, and it doesn't sit in their libraries.
So Larry's going to look at them Monday, and somebody else is going to look at them too.
And so that Russian stuff, I don't know what it is.
We would love it, and we would love early travel books is one thing that we like.
Travel is really big.
Yeah.
And early... Anyway, we're talking about... So you grew up... Well, my grandfather helped me get books
When I was reading Anne of Green Gables, he helped me get all the books by L.M.
Montgomery.
And so I sort of got into the habit, and I used to read the way Joe here reads, which is to read everything by somebody.
My daughter's a little bit.
Well, I read, and it took me 25 years to get all of her books, because she actually wrote a lot of books, and some of them are very difficult to find.
And actually, now they're all being reprinted, finally.
Did you go into a few books?
No, but now they're... Somebody did.
Very nicely illustrated.
It really horrified.
Books that I think of as being so rare that are now out there in paperback.
How old were you when you started collecting these?
Oh, 12 and 13.
Really?
And it was a collect... You considered yourself a collector?
No, I didn't.
No, the great moment came when I was at Vassar, and I went into... I went to the House of Books, which was owned by Margie Cohn, who was one of the great lady booksellers.
She'd still be alive if she hadn't looked the wrong way in London.
She'd be 98, but she would still be a dealer.
And because I was reading Virginia Woolf, and I bought from her.
But the first book I bought, I was going to give to Madeira School, my alma mater, because I thought I never thought I could buy something and keep it.
I just wanted it, and I thought I would give it away.
And then this wonderful light bulb went on my head that said, I don't have to give this book away.
I can keep it.
So I kept them ever since, what I could buy.
What prompted the interest of Little Orphan Annie?
Oh, I just started reading it in college, and I had no idea how right-wing Little Orphan Annie was.
It was just absurd.
So I just collected Annie, because I was a liberal.
She was a little fascist, because it amused me.
You see, my sense of humor has, unfortunately,
set the tone for many of my collections.
I'm curious, but what is that collection of books?
Oh, it's books and little, you know, cups and dolls and signet rings, Dakota rings, everything.
All the big little books.
Could you say this is the preeminent little Arcanetti collection?
It's pretty good.
Joe the Pro keeps offering to sell it for me.
In fact, I should have given it to them before the movie, because the movie was such a bust that I think the whole little orphan any market dropped.
And then I was getting ready to sell it again to my own daughter, who shows no interest in rare books at all.
She said, oh no, don't sell that.
It's taking up a lot of space, and I no longer... How old is your daughter?
26.
She reads books, but she likes new, clean books.
I think she spent too many, like Larry's son, too many...
hours waiting in book stories.
I wonder whether it no longer goes down generationally or whether it's just that so few people younger than a certain age have any interest at all.
No, I think one of the things I'm developing is that the generational collections are really the exception.
I went to Shady's place.
I was in Christy.
He's the third generation.
His grandfather was an oil man.
You know, that's the source of the Shady fortune.
Oh, is it?
His grandfather was the guy who discovered oil in Pennsylvania.
Spindletop or whatever.
Yeah, like Titus.
Yeah.
And the guy was incredibly wealthy by the time he was 42 and he started collecting books.
And this colored Shady is the greatest collector of them all.
I mean, you really know it.
That is, it's amazing.
I sat with him for four hours, really, and we canceled pinpointings by our single week.
He just got so energized by these books and so excited by it.
He took out the Gutenberg Bible and put it on the lap, you know?
Oh, really?
And I got life in it.
You know, I really can't make it.
This is a great moment.
That's something you don't get to do with, right?
You know, that's what he said.
You have to feel we're tight, thick papers in the forest.
I checked my machine to make sure I got that quote done.
Makes it very motto, doesn't it?
He did it so well.
That's the incredible thing.
Yeah, he showed me the little holes.
Look, it's something about first times.
And in this case, it really was true.
The first was the best.
Except that his theory is that it really wasn't the first.
Well, it really wasn't.
And he has a 32-line biblical tract after he went through the whole thing with me, showing how they file down the peas.
OK.
What am I going to do?
you do you cover so much in your essay of course that uh i don't want to ask you questions it's really already answered that's good i haven't read it again is that in english or is that in french did you have to translate oh i i can't read french it is it's not translated so how did you how were you able to uh
I guess I was quoting a translation and got someone to translate it.
I can't remember.
I was just wondering if there is a translation.
No, not that I could not.
I saw that at Harvard and I said I can't read it.
I know, it's very frustrating.
It's a good time.
It's stupid.
But that sounds like, I love that Mary Richardson, is it color?
Oh, yes.
Connection, the Bronte thing.
Yes, that's a fun.
What do you think?
This?
We don't have any tissue paper doing it.
This man from... Speak.
Speak.
I can't speak.
The man from... Oh, I see.
The man from Princeton wanted tissue paper.
We don't have any tissue paper to put around.
Back on again.
Oh.
I keep using my... You should write something from him.
He would love it, right?
Oh, dear.
Well, you can always use another pair of bookends.
That's just...
You did mention that you made the transition from a modest impulse to modest mania.
Would you say that you are a bibliomaniacal person?
Not really.
I can't say that.
Because being in the store, I'm in a controlled situation.
Because I used to take books home from the store.
And then I discovered that if you kept them for a few years,
You didn't need to have them anymore.
Some of them.
It's a very interesting rent.
Then I bring it back to the store, and they would have doubled in value.
You know, Cullen Franklin says precisely the same thing.
He is an collector.
He buys, essentially, for himself.
And he doesn't put prices on the books.
They arrive at a price.
But basically, you go into his barn, his book barn, at Cullen, and these are his books.
If you want to buy it, you can buy it.
You can enjoy it.
That's exactly what Bill mentioned.
He locked up a lot of his books.
What do you collect, Bill?
What's that?
Bill's collection.
The collection I'm really quite passionate about is books and the ways that you're liking to do with.
Most of these visual artists and artists that were
Up to the point of the Napoleonic dispersion.
Fine arts theory.
Do you sell these things?
Well, that's the problem.
I'm not a pure collector.
I'm certainly not a figure.
I sold some things like that.
I can't afford to really collect them.
I can't afford to collect on a scale where I'd like to collect.
So I have niggled a way into a reasonably good little collection, which, you know, converts.
Well, actually, you've been here, what, 20 years?
We've been in business for 20 years, yeah.
At this location or anywhere?
Yeah.
That little, that store on the right, the one door and the one window was our first shop.
And then we, this came up for rent, and we rented this.
And then we, this came up for rent, and books just breed anyway.
and slowly we've taken over, we have three apartments upstairs.
Now, would you describe yourself as a Washingtonian?
Oh, sure.
Is that how you and Larry put that?
Oh, later on in life, yes, I was living in Houston.
But you also grew up here.
But I grew up in Washington.
Oh, yes, he was running a bookshop when I met him.
As a trade, I suppose so.
But I really don't want to speak for him.
He's in a special, he's in a very unusual position now because he can't be treated normally by most dealers who sell him.
We get catalogs from Joseph, the provider, and we've known certainly Larry Moskowitz for 20 years, and they always have something that one of Larry's early friends sold to them, either letters or books inscribed to his old friends.
And it's a very awkward relationship, and I can't help but look on a collected thing.
But the trade has changed, and he really
has been in the trade for 25, 30 years.
And it's part of the old-fashioned... Without speaking for him, but he does seem to have some bad feelings about the British booksellers.
Well, I don't know.
Some of our friends, certainly Hayward Hill, our best customers are British.
and he doesn't really see them.
And he doesn't like England, for sure, but that's a different matter.
No, no.
I don't know that... I can't speak about his being disillusioned by the book, Craig, because I'm not sure.
I think he feels oppressed in general by people.
They regard him differently.
He said he still loves buying and selling books.
And bookstores.
Yes, he's unpacking those.
Sure.
I guess you share the same interest in the kinds of books that you like to buy and sell like that.
Is that a fair?
Well, we're not really very interested.
We just buy all the good books that are offered.
And that's the game.
There's so many more booksellers around than there used to be in this city and everything.
So the hardest part of bookselling is buying good books.
So if we get offered a maritime collection, we'll buy it.
We've never had a lot of poetry, but we...
This must be an interesting town.
How would you rate this as a rare book town?
Very poorly.
Really?
I mean, it's been a good, more or less, most of these years it's been a good source of books.
Now there's a great number of young booksellers in Washington.
But for a while there, there were only two or three of us.
and we didn't have much competition.
And there are a lot of books in these houses, but there are not a lot of people in these houses buying books.
And this is the memo center of the universe.
And so we sell most of our books to dealers passing food here.
Do you think because it's not a very, it's kind of a rootless city?
I hate to use that.
Well, it's a government city.
We do have Georgetown University, and we have Dunbarton Oaks, and we have the National Gallery.
and a lot of scholars in this town, and they are customers, yeah.
But the ordinary politicians and bureaucrats, not surprisingly, not collectors.
So where would you say you see, we don't do most of your business, your clients aren't really... No, they're not, they're dealers.
And they come from
England.
I come from New York, and again, California.
Did I also say that you didn't collect books on bibliography, or collectors' book collection?
Oh, sure.
You have to, even privately, you have to build up a reference.
It's like reading cookbooks, though.
Yeah, everyone does that.
It reads to me that this is something you've been thinking of for a long time, this particular subject.
Well, I did actually.
It's the only thing I've put a lot of thought into, perhaps in my life.
But I've had that puzzle for 20 years, and then I had to make this paper.
And I joined this group because I was scared of public speaking and scared of writing, so I managed to come.
to accomplish both in one by making myself do something.
And so I made myself think.
I wish I could do it well.
Do you think, have you answered in your own mind as a puzzle answers for you?
Oh, no, you could write a whole other paper probably and have another theory.
But I felt right about a lot of those theories.
I do.
I mean, it can't be.
It's a conditioned thing, not a thing.
It's an innate sexual difference.
But I have really seen, and we have seen a lot of, as well as the indifference of women, real hostility.
Have you seen all these things?
The bored woman in the bookstore, and... It seems like a police ambulance has risen so far.
It's very strange.
I've seen young boys, street boys come in, and they're not afraid and they're interested.
They want to know what's on their shelves.
But do you subscribe to that?
We were discussing it, I guess, in the interview, but do you subscribe to that assertion that because women had been collected as objects?
Oh, that's a sort of facile beginning of a thought.
I'm told, by the way, that Jackie O was a pretty good book collector.
To follow that,
Not that I'm asking you to comment on that, but I just am told that she's... Well, she's made no presents in the trade.
I don't know, unless she has one person applying her.
I was told by a woman deal about it, right, who I really expect.
Well, she'll never talk to you, but she's a collector.
What would she come up with?
Well, you know her great friend, for instance, Sonny Mellon, that's fabulous.
collection of garden books really beautiful beautiful that's a genuine collection and i think i bet i bet she maybe that's part of what she could just find a period certainly she would find it less than amenable to to go out in public and i think that she would only go there
if she really were interested in seeing what was around, except to make maybe a three minute turn.
It's not like that.
So there must, I think there must be an interest there without knowing you needed to say this.
I raised it for one, I'll wait until I thought she was up for the phone.
That one.
It would be a curious disclosure, because if anybody epitomizes the female object in the last 25 years, I mean, Onassis... Well, maybe she's in the tradition of the 18th century collectors, who assimilated the power symbols of the male.
Onassis made no bones about the fact that she was the ultimate possession.
Yes, you're right, she was.
But those French mistresses collect people, because they knew that the king...
and that that was part of their tower.
Where was I just reading, I mean, in detail about Catherine de' Medici and Henry II?
I mean, a book that he would give to the mistress, he would put a different binding or a different seal.
One to the wife would have a different one.
You know, I mean, there's all this kind of language in the bindings that, but you have quite a few interesting.
You have at least four women there who are kind of connected in a circle.
of collectors.
That's fascinating.
That's why I wish this thing were in English and not French.
I know.
It's very frustrating.
I love your title, loosely borrowed from Carter and Pollard, by the way.
Yes.
Did they use the same title here?
I should hope so.
I mean, of all the people that would know what that meant.
Nobody I was addressing used my reference.
I have a first mint copy of that book.
In researching this book, by the way,
pleasant by-products of a lovely collection of, you know, auction catalogs.
Well, what did you collect there?
You said you bought some things at the Martin Center.
Well, what I bought is Jacob Blank, you know, his sixth volume.
I bought his Stritic catalog, and I paid $2.50 for that.
Oh, I see.
For the BAL.
But there was one book that did we owe some farmer collection.
We were in a farmer collection in England.
in the 70s.
It's about a 200-year-old catalog of a library.
And that's when Bradley was in silence.
He didn't really have a book plate.
Selthabies made up a book plate for him, which I think is ridiculous.
He's an ancient and dishonorable tradition.
Yeah, a little globe.
But as I said, Bradley Martin didn't have a book plate.
They fabricated a little book plate and put it in some of the books.
In England a few times, it's been done in a slightly more honest way.
Yeah, well, I think they do kind of have a... But it's been tricked up here several times.
In this city, Joseph Herschel, it looks like it's concocted for him by the owner of the local option office, a man whose name I can barely bring myself to now.
Amy Lowell is quite an interesting exception.
Well, not the most feminine of women, but yes, indeed, she was an exception.
But she was a real collector.
Well, I guess her husband started her off, but she sure as hell put the ball in it, yeah.
But the second husband is also a collector, too, right?
Oh, yes.
Well, by then, she is.
Is that the Echols, by the way, that you quoted as one of the same names?
Yes, yes.
There's a collector, by the way.
I did this with Scott Terrow, the presumed innocent guy.
Oh, yes?
Not from my book.
I write for newspapers, so I do offer interviews.
And he said his partner, the 90-year-old guy, and he said he is the preeminent collector in Chicago.
I just bought what was left of his book recently.
But that is interesting, don't you think?
Yes, please.
In fact, somebody said, you've got to, I told us to one of this woman dealer that I've been talking to, she said, yes, you've got to talk to this guy, because he does Mary Hyde very well.
But have you talked to Mary Hyde or Lady Echols?
Lady Echols and I spoke at the Gloria Club, and she
and I wrote a nice long letter.
I mean, she is reluctant to talk to me because she fears security and everything at home.
She doesn't want to talk because she says I can have a lovely letter from her.
Talk to her elsewhere.
No, I mean, I don't mean that I'm a friend.
No, but I mean, she doesn't have to.
But talking about her books and not having a library, and it was always one of a museum specials.
She said she's turned on every request for anything.
I really had two people so far decline, right?
Larry and Michael.
But there's enough on the record about both of them that, I mean, Cadillac Jack up there, I mean, he speaks quite eloquently about his... He wrote me a letter.
What if we said, after having written Cadillac Jack, how much more, what else do I have to say?
which is pretty much the same line.
You know, what about Mark Lasner?
There is a young collector in this city.
He's amazing, yeah.
He's going to be, if he is not already, he's very close to a major collector now.
Who is it?
Mark Samuels Lasner.
Mark Samuels Lasner, L.A.S.S.?
I guess it's L.A.S.S.
going on.
Where is he from?
He's lived in Boston, in Charlottesville, and now Washington.
And I think that he's given evidence of actually settling in here in Washington.
How old do we think he is?
Is he in his 30s?
I don't think Mark must be in the office with him.
But he's young.
He's a collection.
I like his collection.
He knows a lot of people.
He is the forthcoming bibliographer of Max Bierbaum, and he has his building
a collection that could only be compared with... That's right.
On my list of things I'm going to do, and it's not the highest, but you know that Yale gives a prize every year, an undergraduate prize in book collecting.
And I thought that would be kind of interesting to go and find the last five recipients.
Do they have money?
Do they get money?
Because I... There's a little prize here.
I used to judge at George Washington, gave a prize, and it was a thousand for the first prize or whatever.
And most of it, yes, most of the entries...
Tell me a little bit about this.
This is interesting.
Well, most of the entries, you could tell right away, were just hustled together in order to win the $1,000.
The big little book collector.
How did this start?
I don't know.
Somebody left money.
Yes, it was one of those.
I mean, did this person want to start
They wanted to stimulate the book collection.
Yeah.
And so they could give a price.
And most of the collections were fraudulent.
The price was coming at $200.
Well, the first price was $1,000.
You would have done it.
You should have been at GW for it.
Yeah.
You do have a score next door that I've been chewing over all over lunch.
Oh, hello.
Yeah, I'm going to look at it.
Of course.
Is it unlocked?
It's still unlocked.
Do you have any music in your shop?
Music.
He has a shop across the street, so you can go over there afterwards.
Oh, Red Door, William F. Hale books.
He's got some music.
Thank you.
I didn't even know we had any.
What club, by the way, is members and male guests only?
Oh, that was Cosmos Club.
But they've since let women in as members.
I said that because half my audience belonged to the Cosmos Club.
But it was outside the library.
Yes.
which really reinforced the point that you were making.
Yes, you could take women up to the dining room as guests, but they were not allowed in the library.
I presume they allowed them in now that they allowed them as members.
And you refresh my memory.
I didn't realize that Blades had actually included women as one of the great enemies of books.
I mean, that's...
I mean, you know, you're starting with two and a half strikes against me.
I know, yeah.
And then you wonder, I say, all right, you don't want me to collect books in the hell with you.
Water and worms.
Well, that's why this rather defensive, hostile attitude has been a cultural thing.
You do kind of end up in an upbeat... I tried to, but you have a better example than I do.
But that story of that girl is wonderful.
In fact, I might even start a chapter like that, you know.
with that little scene.
I didn't even have to know who she is.
It would be nice.
Let's talk, give me a little background.
When did you decide, how did you become a professional book book?
I mean, you started as a, you loved books for as long as you can remember.
Well, it's like keeping that book.
I thought I was going to have to give away.
I never thought of myself as a book seller.
And actually, I started because Allard Lowenstein got defeated in Congress.
20 years ago, and his AA, who was a friend of mine, and Larry and I started the store together, just impulsively, because that property was up for rent for $125 a month, and we figured we could make $125 a month.
And then we just did it for fun.
20 years ago for $125 a month?
That's not a lot of money.
20 years ago I had an apartment down here when I lived in Washington for a year.
Don't go away, but he always comes in.
So actually that's when he became a professional.
Yeah, and it's just funded to buy books and sell them.
And then John Curtis moved down to Williamsburg, and he has a very beautiful store there now.
What's the name of the store?
The Book Press.
Yeah, and he was, his wife is at Bathurst with me, and he was the Allard Loewenstein AA, and I worked in the office to find it, and I believe it.
Al.
Okay, yeah, I did.
I'm sorry, it seems like I'm jumping around the flag.
But anyway, it was just kind of an impulse, and then pride kept it going because I think we're such a nice story.
We keep it nice.
I'm sorry, you said pride?
Pride, yes.
Pride of shop.
I don't know.
What's the German for that, Bill?
Something.
It's just a lot of fun to buy books.
But did you find the transition difficult from going from a collector?
No, because I checked what I wanted.
Actually, it gave you an opportunity.
And as I said, it checked me, basically, because... Actually, one thing Larry did tell me in one of these letters is that he became a bookseller as one way to get the books.
That's right.
That's what we both did.
But as a consequence, mostly, I don't want rare, rare books anymore.
I don't need them.
You need it for yourself.
Yes.
I have a lot of them.
I buy books to read now, as does he.
He knows how to buy other traditions he cares about.
And I don't know.
You know what happens?
I kind of find that myself, too.
I mean, that... So much, quite interesting made by these modern people, for one thing.
Are you immediately sitting here for a few minutes?
I'll sit here for a few minutes.
Tell me when you want to wrap up, by the way.
Okay, okay.
Can I have a quick look at the store before you close up?
Sure.
You know what?
I'm going to probably call you sometime.
We can finish this on the phone.
Okay.
Because this is kind of a...
It's hard for me to continue to train us.
Well, if you come back to Washington, maybe you'll come back and see my book.
These are the most of them.
We usually kept all the rare books in here, but now we've got some very rare books.
We had very few sets.
I'm still not governed, being guarded.
I have to leave the window online.
It's a very old shop.
You have to take people to them.
So we have some rarities upstairs, but these are all pretty good.
And the next door is a total honor system.
We have bibliography and history of art.
You have some stuff in bibliography?
Yeah.
We should go in and air conditioning.
I may well be that I could be a customer, too.
Why don't you have a look next door, and then I'll take you up.
Good to you.
Yes, is this Mr. Kitchener?
How can you tell?
Mr. Kitchener, my name is Nick Baz Baines, B-A-S-B-A-N-E-S.
I'm calling from Massachusetts.
I was in Washington yesterday, and I
I was waiting for you.
Where you been?
What do you mean waiting for me?
She told me you were going to maybe call me.
You're the collector, Justin.
Well, I'm working on a book on such a subject as collecting.
Well, what could be better?
You're going to have a lot of fun.
Well, I've been having a lot of fun, and I've been traveling to a number of places and talking to some fascinating people.
Absolutely.
You get the greatest.
You're going to have a lot of enjoyment.
How many have you got so far?
Oh, God.
I've probably got 82 hours of tape so far.
Marvelous.
I've been to England.
I've been to France.
I've been to Bill Scheide's place out in Princeton, New Jersey.
He's a fellow that owns a Gutenberg Bible, among other things.
Oh.
Are you concentrating on books?
Well, it is strictly about books, yeah, books and manuscripts.
All right.
Well, when are you coming back to Washington?
Well, it's going to be a while, I think.
Well, my door's wide open for you.
Tell me a little bit about yourself.
Well, I'm thoroughly enjoying life and have for some, oh, 82 years, I guess.
And my mission in life is to convert people to collecting something.
Just something?
To collect, something.
What to collect is incidental.
Ah, okay.
In your case, we want to collect books.
Yeah, but so do you deal with people who collect books?
Exactly right.
Collect people who collect anything.
I got a whole lecture.
I got a whole lecture just finished, that is a joy, The Wonderful World of Books.
And it takes my audience around to the book stalls, the book stands, the book dealers of the world.
Have you done this?
Have you been to all these book places?
Yeah, absolutely.
Do you have this thing typed up or written?
It's all in the head, but it's all documented with slides.
Color pictures.
I'll take you to Japan.
It's a delightful book deal is there.
To France, wherever you want to go, I'll take you.
And it looks like we're colleagues in the same thing, except you're writing and I'm talking.
But tell me a little bit, I mean, why is this a mission for you?
Because you've got to do something in life, don't you?
You've got to have some purpose for living.
I mean, it gives an added zest.
And how long have you been involved in this collecting?
I'd say, modestly speaking, 65 years.
Really?
All in Washington?
Oh, the whole world.
Do you have any information that's been written or published, or do you have any brochures or anything you could send?
I'll send you maybe a little broadside that I have, but I've got books just filled with data.
I've spoken in every state of the Union.
You have?
Yeah.
Except with one exception, Alaska, and maybe I can accomplish that shortly.
How do you get these bookings?
For 15 years, I was on the Geertig Lecture Bureau, Celebrity Series.
So how do you go about getting people to collect?
Everybody, everybody collects something until they prove themselves innocent, and I find out what they collect.
And why have you been so committed to going about it in this way?
Because I like happy people.
And I have found collectors, as you have too, who have got some purpose in life, something to talk about, something to do, something to look for, are happy people.
Now, uh...
Can you have any great examples of people you've converted?
Well, continuously meeting people.
Today I met, I took some pictures of a young lady who kept Japanese woodblock prints, a soccer of a special school.
And she was very grateful to me for contaminating her, for getting her started.
I meet people who, I got going on collecting ivory coffee.
called fantastic little miniatures, no larger than your thumb, called Netsuki.
And they portray the whole folklore, legends, lifestyle of the Japanese, no larger than your thumb, but particularly executed.
How about in terms of books now?
I've got a whole lecture just on book collecting.
What do you tell people on book collecting?
Go ahead.
Give me a little bit of information.
All right.
Tell me a little bit about it.
Why don't I tape the thing and send it to you?
Do you mind?
Well, what can we do?
If I'm giving you all my cards, what feedback do I get from you?
I'm sorry, what do you mean?
Well, I mean, if I can do a lot for you, what can you do for me?
Well, I'm right now trying to find people and fucking things.
get into this book that I'm writing.
I'm writing a book right now.
What's the title of your book?
The book has a title.
The title of the book is A Gentle Madness.
Beautiful.
It's about obsession.
Yes, it is.
A Gentle Madness.
That is a description of a bibliomaniac.
This man's grandson said my grandfather was
So I've appropriated that for my title.
And I'm writing basically about people who have been obsessed with books.
This is my subject.
So what I'm looking for is information.
I'm looking for people that have been bitten by the bug, so to speak.
And about books, obviously, anyway.
If it's artiques and stuff, that's not really what I'm... Well, when you come to Washington, I'll put the whole show on for you.
Tommy, could you tell me a little bit right now while we speak?
I want to reserve my judgment.
That's the trifle.
I want to be helpful to you.
But I want to reserve my answer until I've got something definitely resolved on my wonderful world of books.
Okay.
And then we'll get together.
I believe in sharing information.
But my point is, you say, how can I work?
What do you get from me in return?
I guess I didn't finish saying that.
I'm writing a book.
not just for information, but for people, for individuals, who I might want to include in there.
Okay.
I've got some great ones.
And I'm not saying anybody, everybody's got a chapter coming, you know what I'm saying, but I'm most certainly willing to listen.
Marcia Carter was interested in what you had to say, and she passed on your card, and so here I am.
Well, I'm glad you're there, and don't leave me until I get a piece of paper and put your name down.
Hold it.
Sure.
Of course, of course you've got The Anatomy of the Bibliomania by Holbrook Jackson.
Yeah.
My God, what a repository that was.
Yeah, that's quite interesting.
And I imagine you're going to do the sequel to it.
Well, that's kind of the idea.
I'm writing about Bibliomania.
Oh, okay.
Gentle Bibliomania.
All right.
What's the title?
Give it to me again.
I kind of like to keep that.
Then you keep it.
Don't repeat it to me.
Don't repeat it.
Because, you know, nothing's yours until it's yours.
You're exactly right.
It's a book that was published.
It's anybody.
We understand each other thoroughly.
Now, one more thing you're going to spell your name for.
It's Nick as in Nicholas.
Nicholas with an H. It's B as in boy.
A-S-B.
B-A-N-E-S, Bears Beans.
B-A-S-D-A-N-E-S.
And did you give this body address and everything like that?
No, I'm going to give it to you now.
Good.
92.
East Street.
East Street, got it.
North Rafton, G-R-A-F-T-O-N.
R-A-S-T-O-N-G.
Yeah.
Mass.
0-1-5-3-6.
0-5.
0-1-5.
1-5.
3-6.
Great.
Now, how close do you, to Boston?
Close.
Okay.
Yeah, 45 minutes.
That's no distance.
Yeah.
Sick list, I'm happy you've called me.
We'll get together.
Okay, well, just, you know, if you think of something you can send me that I can see, you know, even if it's
paper or something.
But I mean, I am interested in this passion that you have for converting people to collecting.
You know, then my highlight has some use for that.
All right.
I want you to use it.
But, you know, not yet per se.
Maybe, you know, you... Anything you want to use, you know.
I mean, you sound like an interesting character to me, to be honest with you.
Oh, that's what I work at.
I work at trying to be a character.
And what I'm looking for are characters to use in my book.
All right.
That's what I'm traveling the whole country for.
Exactly right.
We understand each other.
I went out to California in three weeks.
I've been to England.
I've been to France.
I've been to Texas.
I've been to Chicago.
I've been to Washington.
I've been to Philadelphia.
I've been to New York so often.
Super.
You ought to have some great ones in New York.
Well, I'm here all the time, and I'm really kind of covered in New York, and I've got some beautiful stories coming out of there.
Good stories, you know.
of the great collectors as well as the, uh, the smarts.
Just a little fire blow.
Give a little sky change.
He needs his place.
Only if he does something interesting.
That's well put.
That's right.
I agree with you.
I'm looking for good stories.
That's what the whole thing hinges on.
Okay, nice talking to you, sir.
Thank you.
I will talk again.
Please.
Hum, hum, hum, hum, hum.